# Brain Tumor Classification

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Briefly describe the purpose/result(s) of your project, the skills you applied, and the AI4ALL Ignite program.

*EXAMPLE:*
*Uncovered and meticulously analyzed three distinct biases present in ChatGPT, employing advanced Python techniques and data analysis methodologies, all within AI4ALL's cutting-edge AI4ALL Ignite accelerator.*


## Problem Statement <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Describe the motivation for this project, why it is relevant, and what its impacts are.

*EXAMPLE:*
*Given the substantial daily output of responses, the identification and mitigation of ChatGPT's biases become critical, safeguarding both the multitude of users and the far-reaching consequences they may influence.*

## Key Results <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Enumerate the main results of this project in a list and describe them.

*EXAMPLE:*
1. *Recorded over 1,000 unique prompts and their responses generated by ChatGPT*
2. *Identified three biases in ChatGPT's responses*
   - *When prompted about this world event*
   - *When prompted about this field of science*
   - *When prompted about this political party*


## Methodologies <!--- do not change this line -->

### Data Cleaning and SMOTE
We first cleaned our dataset, removing all null and duplicated values. We also used StandardScaler to regularize the features. Our dataset was imbalanced, with 92.82% of the data being tumor-positive. We applied SMOTE to create a balanced dataset. We used two different models: Logistic Regression, and Support Vector Machines (SVMs). We used an 80-20 train-test split for both:

### Logistic Regression
*[Need to do]*

### SVMs and k-fold Cross Validation
We used 5-fold cross validation, and set C=10. This meant that any mistakes would be highly penalized, resulting in a narrower margin and decision boundary.


## Data Sources <!--- do not change this line -->

This is the dataset we used in this project: [Link to Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jakeshbohaju/brain-tumor))


## Technologies Used <!--- do not change this line -->

(UPDATE IN README.md)
Below are the technologies, libraries, and frameworks used in our project:

- Python
- pandas
- scikit-learn
- Logistic Regression
- Support Vector Machines (SVMs)
- k-fold Cross Validation


## Authors <!--- do not change this line -->

*This project was completed in collaboration with:*
- *Vaidehi Karve ([vkarve@ucsd.edu](mailto:vkarve@ucsd.edu), [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaidehi-karve/))*
- *Jane Smith ([jane.smith@example.com](mailto:jane.smith@example.com))*
